Migrating an on-prem web app to the cloud: ASP.NET on IIS to Azure App Services (#455)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2021-06/asp-net-iis-on-prem-to-azure-app-service/index.md

1. Click the **Save** button.

Repeat for your different subscriptions, as appropriate for your development, test and production environments.

### Updating your deployment process

We need to update our deployment process to support our move to the cloud. We could use [Octopus channels](https://octopus.com/docs/releases/channels) to support the old and new deployment processes but we're moving away from our on-premises infrastructure so I'll delete the old IIS based deployment step.

First, review the **Update database** step. This script step uses a database connection string to connect to a database, so no changes are required here. We do need to ensure that our Octopus instance can connect to our Azure SQL database though. I need to update the Azure SQL database firewall to allow the Octopus Cloud [Static IP addresses](https://octopus.com/docs/octopus-cloud/static-ip) to connect to it.

Next, we need to add a new **Azure App Service deployment** step. We've already configured our infrastructure so this isn't difficult. 

![Azure App Service deployment step configuration](azure-web-app-deploy.png "width=500")

> This screenshot shows our step configuration. We're using a worker to deploy to Azure web app targets with the `web` role, and we specify the package, app service and connection string configuration updates. Octopus recently introduced an improved [Azure App Service deployment step](https://octopus.com/blog/azure-app-service-step) which allows us to wire-up our configuration updates directly in the step. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This screenshot shows our step configuration. We're using a worker to deploy to Azure web app targets with the `web` role, and we specify the package, app service and connection string configuration updates. Octopus recently introduced an improved [Azure App Service deployment step](https://octopus.com/blog/azure-app-service-step) which allows us to configure updates directly in the step. 
```

> This screenshot shows our step configuration. We're using a worker to deploy to Azure web app targets with the `web` role, and we specify the package, app service and connection string configuration updates. Octopus recently introduced an improved [Azure App Service deployment step](https://octopus.com/blog/azure-app-service-step) which allows us to wire-up our configuration updates directly in the step. 

Reviewer: @robpearson would it make sense to update the last sentence in this para to:
Octopus recently introduced an improved [Azure App Service deployment step](https://octopus.com/blog/azure-app-service-step) which allows us to configure updates directly in the step.

Author: @TeganAli Yes, that suits and it's much shorter. :)

---
title: Migrating an ASP.NET web app from IIS on-premises to an Azure App Service
description: Learn how to migrate an ASP.NET web app from hosting it on-premises to an Azure App Service in the Cloud.
author: rob.pearson@octopus.com
visibility: public
published: 2022-06-09-1400
metaImage: move-to-the-cloud-with-octopus-deploy-2021.png
bannerImage: move-to-the-cloud-with-octopus-deploy-2021.png
tags:
 - DevOps
 - Migration
---

![Migrate an ASP.NET web app from IIS on-premises to an Azure App Service](move-to-the-cloud-with-octopus-deploy-2021.png)

Teams are migrating their applications and infrastructure to the cloud. The natural migration path for an ASP.NET web app running on Microsoft's IIS web server on-premises is to App Services on Microsoft's Azure cloud platform. It's relatively straightforward to change the way your application is hosted, but it's also important to ensure your CI/CD process is still repeatable and reliable. 

In this blog post, I walk through how to update the deployment process of an existing web application with Octopus Deploy, moving it from on-premises to the cloud.

## Example application

> We're using the [Random Quotes](https://github.com/octopussamples/randomquotes) web application as the example in this migration guide. This web application randomly retrieves and displays famous quotes. It's a simple application with an ASP.NET front end with a SQL Server back end to help illustrate the changes required without being overwhelming. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're using the [Random Quotes](https://github.com/octopussamples/randomquotes) web application as the example in this migration guide. This web application randomly retrieves and displays famous quotes. It's a simple application with an ASP.NET front end with a SQL Server back-end to help illustrate the changes required without being overwhelming. 
```
